=head1 NAME

DBIx::SQLEngine::ReadMe - Introduction to DBIx::SQLEngine.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The DBIx::SQLEngine class provides an extended interface for DBI database handles, adding methods that support ad-hoc SQL generation and query execution in a single call.

=head1 MOTIVATION

This is the most recent version of a collection of libraries that I've used over the last several years to develop business data applications and object-relational mapping toolkits.

Its goal is to simplify dynamic query execution with the following capabilities:

=over 4

=item * 

Data-driven SQL: Ad-hoc generation of SQL statements from Perl data structures in a variety of formats. 

=item * 

High-Level Interface: Standard operations are handled by a single method call each. Error handling is standardized.

=item * 

Full API Access: Pass-through arbitrary SQL and allow access to entire DBI API for cases when high-level interfaces are insufficient or inconvenient.

=item * 

Portability: Dynamic subclassing (via DBIx::AnyDBD) to allow platform-specific support for driver idiosyncrasies and DBMS workarounds. 

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

  DBI			1.0
  DBIx::AnyDBD		2.0
  Class::MakeMethods	1.000_015

You must also have at least one working DBD module installed. (If you are using  DBD::CSV or DBD::AnyData, make sure you have upgraded to SQL::Statement 1.0 or later.)

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

In order for the test to succeed, you must also have at least one working DBD module installed, and must provide a DSN to which the script can connect with permissions to create tables.


=head1 STATUS AND SUPPORT

Version 0.003 is a preliminary release of DBIx::SQLEngine intended for public review and discussion

Although it based on earlier code that was extensively tested over several years of production use, this code has recently been majorly refactored, and has not yet been sufficiently tested in its new form.

The proposed CPAN module list entry is as follows:

  Name            DSLI  Description
  --------------  ----  ---------------------------------------------
  DBIx::
  :: SQLEngine    bdpo  Extends DBI with high-level operations

Further information and support for this module is available at http://www.evoscript.org.

Please report bugs or other problems to C<E<lt>simonm@cavalletto.orgE<gt>>.

See L<DBIx::SQLEngine::ToDo> for bugs and missing features.


=head1 SEE ALSO 

See L<DBIx::SQLEngine> for interface documentation.

See L<DBIx::SQLEngine::Changes> for revision history.


=head2 Similar Modules

Several other CPAN modules provide a similar wrapper around DBI for purposes of simplification, abstraction, or portability. 

Most of these provide simple wrappers around DBI's connect, prepare, and fetch methods, but do not appear to support any kind of cross-DBMS portability mechanism. See L<DBIx::Abstract>, L<DBIx::AbstractLite>, and L<DBIx::Broker> for examples of this group. 

Some provide a limited degree of cross-DBMS support via specialized subclasses for the DBDs they support. See L<DBIx::SearchBuilder>, L<DBIx::Easy>, and L<DBIx::DWIW> for examples of this group.

The DBIx::Recordset framework provides similar functionality, including a substantial library of cross-DBMS compatibilty information. It also includes a TIE-drive interface that allows automatic updates on retrieved rows. See L<DBIx::RecordSet>, L<DBIx::Database>, L<DBIx::Compat>

The Alzabo framework provides similar functionality, included DBMS-specific SQL generation, as part of an RDBMS-OO mapper; see L<Alzabo::Driver> and L<Alzabo::SQLMaker>.


=head1 CREDITS AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 Developed By

  M. Simon Cavalletto, simonm@cavalletto.org
  Evolution Softworks, www.evoscript.org

=head2 Contributors

  Piglet / EJ Evans, piglet@piglet.org
  Eric Schneider, roark@evolution.com

=head2 Copyright

Copyright 2001, 2002 Matthew Cavalletto. 

Portions copyright 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Evolution Online Systems, Inc.

=head2 License

You may use, modify, and distribute this software under the same terms as Perl.


=cut
